Your kidneys act as a filtration system,
processing blood to produce waste
and excess fluid,
which are eliminated as urine.
About 20% of the blood your heart
pumps each minute
enters the kidneys
through the renal arteries.
Filtering blood plasma
and formation of urine
takes place in structures called nephrons.
The filtering process begins when the
blood flows through a collection of
tiny blood vessels called a glomerulus,
which is within a capsule
where filtered wastes collect.
Waste and excess fluid pass into
tiny tubes called tubules.
Valuable proteins and chemicals are recycled.
In the tubules,
electrolytes such as sodium and potassium
and water that your body needs
are moved from the filter back
into blood vessels
through a process called resorption.
After resorption,
the final waste material and
excess fluid collect as urine,
which flows down the ureters
from the kidneys to the bladder.
Urine exits the bladder and your body
via the urethra.